Add the ability to disable datasource recovery (#47118)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/datasource.adoc

* `quarkus.datasource.jdbc.transactions` for default unnamed datasource
* `quarkus.datasource._<datasource-name>_.jdbc.transactions` for named datasource

> Datasources are also automatically registered with the transaction recovery system when recovery is enabled. Sometimes an application may wish to override this behaviour, such as when more than one datasource connects to the same database, by setting the configuration property `quarkus.datasource.xa.jdbc.enable-recovery` to `false`. Note that it is vital that at least one such XA capable datasource is enabled for recovery.

Reviewer: I know for certain that I'll get pinged during productization to solve these issues, so I'll mention them now...

> Sometimes an application may wish to override this behaviour, such as when more than one datasource connects to the same database, by setting the configuration property `quarkus.datasource.xa.jdbc.enable-recovery` to `false`.

From just this text, I'm not sure why having two datasources connecting to the same database would change anything -- wouldn't those two datasources have distinct transactions, and thus distinct recovery needs?

Also, IMO it should be `quarkus.datasource."datasource-name".jdbc.enable-recovery`, not `quarkus.datasource.xa.jdbc.enable-recovery`. "xa" as a datasource name in documentation is very confusing.

> Note that it is vital that at least one such XA capable datasource is enabled for recovery.

You may want to explain what the consequences of not doing this are? Surely nobody will die and "vital" is just a turn of phrase :)

---

Actually I suspect this is just saying both too much and too little. I'd suggest keeping it simple and vague?

```suggestion
Datasources are also automatically registered with the transaction recovery system when recovery is enabled. This is a safe default, but you can override this behaviour on a per-datasource basis by setting `quarkus.datasource.jdbc.enable-recovery`/`quarkus.datasource."datasource-name".jdbc.enable-recovery` to `false`. Only use this for advanced use cases and if you know recovery will not be necessary, otherwise it may result in data loss.
```

Author: How about the following text:

> When a datasource is enabled for XA (by setting `quarkus.datasource[.optional name].jdbc.transactions to xa)` and the transaction recovery system is enabled (by setting the property `quarkus.transaction-manager.enable-recovery` to true) then the datasource is automatically registered for recovery. This is a safe default, but you can override this behaviour on a per-datasource basis by setting `quarkus.datasource.jdbc.enable-recovery`/`quarkus.datasource."datasource-name".jdbc.enable-recovery` to `false`. Only use this for advanced use cases and if you know recovery will not be necessary, otherwise it may result in data loss and/or data unavailability because resources may become locked indefinitely.

Author: > Also, IMO it should be quarkus.datasource."datasource-name".jdbc.enable-recovery, not quarkus.datasource.xa.jdbc.enable-recovery. "xa" as a datasource name in documentation is very confusing.

You're right, super catch - it was a cut and paste typo from the application.properties file I included with the tests, thanks.

Author: > From just this text, I'm not sure why having two datasources connecting to the same database would change anything -- wouldn't those two datasources have distinct transactions, and thus distinct recovery needs?

Given the change to the text this question is not so relevant now. But the question does go to the heart of why the new feature is required so I'll provide more context:

Two datasource definitions can connect to the same underlying resource (for example they may have different credentials). The feature refers to how the recovery system finishes pending transaction branches: an XAResource supports a `[recover(int flag)](https://devdocs.io/openjdk~17/java.transaction.xa/javax/transaction/xa/xaresource#recover(int))` [1] operation for scanning XA capable resources to obtain a list of XIDs of transaction branches that are currently in a prepared or heuristically completed state, ie it works on behalf of all transactions that used that resource. The XAResource interface also supports an operation to test whether two resources correspond to [the same XAResource instance](https://devdocs.io/openjdk~17/java.transaction.xa/javax/transaction/xa/xaresource#isSameRM(javax.transaction.xa.XAResource)) [2] but not all resource vendors implement it correctly and as a result recovery can end up opening multiple connections to the same underlying resource which has been reported as being an issue. The recovery system will periodically try to complete (commit/rollback/forget) any XIDs that it "owns".

[1] https://devdocs.io/openjdk~17/java.transaction.xa/javax/transaction/xa/xaresource#recover(int)
[2] https://devdocs.io/openjdk~17/java.transaction.xa/javax/transaction/xa/xaresource#isSameRM(javax.transaction.xa.XAResource)
